RHOAIENG-1910: Rework the documentation to be more consistent (#213)
opendatahub-io/ai-edge: README.md

![](docs/images/edge-architecture.png)

### Terminology

- **Core**
  - The central OpenShift cluster that is used to manage the edge clusters.
  - Can be an on-premise or cloud-based cluster.
  - There are no resources or network constraints expected in the core cluster.
- **Near Edge** 
  - This is an edge environment to run and serve AI/ML inference workloads. 
  - For the purpose of this repository, the near edge environment is represented by separate OpenShift cluster(s) managed from the core OpenShift cluster. 
  - The near edge environment is expected to have moderate yet constrained compute resources and network. 
  - Protected by a firewall to have an outbound only connectivity (i.e. no inbound connections are allowed).

### Use Case

The main objective currently is to showcase that a user can: 

1. Package an inference service by integrating a trained model with all required dependencies into a container image,
   ensuring it's ready for utilization at the near edge location(s) in a streamlined manner.
1. Utilize GitOps methodologies to centrally control and manage the deployment of AI/ML inference services in near edge

>    environments from the core OpenShift cluster.

Author: I think how the edge clusters are configured and the autonomy they have is just a detail IMHO, at the end of the day you control which manifests deployed there directly or indirectly via the hub cluster. I see your point, and I don't have a strong opinion wording it one way or the other so feel free to suggest a rewording that makes more sense and I'll be happy to accept it.

> 1. Utilize GitOps methodologies to centrally control and manage the deployment of AI/ML inference services in near edge
>    environments from the core OpenShift cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Centrally control and manage the set of target near edge environments from the core OpenShift cluster, and configure the initialization of a GitOps workflow on each of those targets.
1. Utilize GitOps tooling at each near edge environment to reconcile the manifests specified in the GitOps repository (managed centrally), and deploy the inference service.
```

This is not a perfect suggestion, but it's along the lines of what I was thinking.

1. Monitor and observe the deployed AI/ML inference workloads in the near edge environments from the core OpenShift cluster.

<!--TODO: Fix the ancor link-->
> [!WARNING]
> Developing and training a model is currently out of scope of this repository as this repository already
contains trained models in the [pipelines/models/](pipelines/models/) directory. You can read more about developing and training a model in the [Developing and training a model](#developing-and-training-a-model) section.

> ### Architecture: A Bird's Eye View

Author: I think it's ok to leave it as such. I don't have a strong opinion either.
